# Problem

Armed with the function `inplace_swap` from Problem 2.10, you decide to write code that will reverse the elements of an array by swapping elements from opposite ends of the array, working toward the middle.
You arrive at the following function:

```c
void reverse_array(int a[], int cnt) {
    int first, last;
    for (first = 0, last = cnt-1;
        first <= last;
        first++,last--)
        inplace_swap(&a[first], &a[last]);
}
```

When you apply your function to an array containing elements 1, 2, 3, and 4, you find the array now has, as expected, elements 4, 3, 2, and 1. When you try it on an array with elements 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, however, you are surprised to see that the array now has elements 5, 4, 0, 2, and 1. In fact, you discover that the code always works correctly on arrays of even length, but it sets the middle element to 0 whenever the array has odd length.

A. For an array of odd length cnt = 2k + 1, what are the values of variables first and last in the final iteration of function reverse_array?

- first and last are both of value `k`

B. Why does this call to function inplace_swap set the array element to 0?

- Any value XOR itself is 0, which is the value that gets assigned at the end of step 1.

C. What simple modification to the code for reverse_array would eliminate this problem?

- `first < last` as the loop condition instead.

One common use of bit-level operations is to implement masking operations, where a mask is a bit pattern that indicates a selected set of bits within a word. As an example, the mask 0xFF (having ones for the least significant 8 bits) indicates the low-order byte of a word. The bit-level operation x & 0xFF yields a value consisting of the least significant byte of x, but with all other bytes set to 0. For example, with x = 0x89ABCDEF, the expression would yield 0x000000EF. The expression ~0 will yield a mask of all ones, regardless of the size of the data representation. The same mask can be written 0xFFFFFFFF when data type int is 32 bits, but it would not be as portable.
